.\" Only use a single space betweeen sentences that are on different lines:
.ss 12 0
.nh
.\" NAME should be all caps, SECTION should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parms are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH XJUMP 6
.SH NAME
xjump - a jumping game for modern graphical systems
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xjump
[--soft-scroll]
[--hard-scroll]
.br
      [--theme \fINAME\fR] [--graphic \fIFILE\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B Xjump
is a jumping game where you are in a Falling Tower.
The floor you are standing on is sinking with the rest of the building;
you will die once the floor gives way (disappears under the bottom of the display).
To survive, you have to jump onto the upper floors of the tower.
Because the entire tower is sinking, the upper floors will soon collapse too, so you have to keep on jumping!
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI --soft-scroll
Scroll the screen continuously. This is the default.
.TP
.BI --hard-scroll
Scroll the screen in discrete increments. This is how Xjump behaved before version 3.0.
.TP
.BI --theme=  NAME
Use a pre-installed sprite theme.
The original Xjump theme is \fB--theme classic\fR.
.TP
.BI --graphic=  FILE
Use a custom sprite file.
The file should be a 144x64 image in BMP format.
If you have an old theme in XPM format, please convert it to BMP format first.

.SH "CONTROLS"
The game can be controlled either with the arrow keys or with the WASD keys.
Use Up, Down or Space to jump. P pauses the game. Shift\-Q exits the game.
.PP
Note that the faster you are moving the higher you will jump.
Use this to reach floors that are further up.
But aim carefully so that you don't miss!
.PP
.SH AUTHORS
\fBxjump\fR was written by Tatsuya Kudoh and Masato Taruishi.
The SDL port was written by Hugo Gualandi.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 1997\-1999 Tatsuya Kudoh, Masato Taruishi
.br
Copyright (C) 2015\-2021 Hugo Gualandi
.PP
License GPLv3+.
This is free software;
you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License, version 3 or later.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
